If you think all health insurance plans are
the same, this comparison might completely
change your view. Today we are talking about two
premium health insurance plans which is Neopar 3.0
and ICIC Lombard Eloate plan and these are not
ordinary policies. Both plans offer powerful
features like unlimited sum in short option, OPD
benefits and even pre-existing disease coverage
from day one in certain varies and they both may
look similar but the real question is what truly
differentiate them and which plan offers more
value and most importantly which type of user
should choose which plan because when it comes
to premium health insurance a small differences
in features can make a big impact at the time of
claim. So in this video we will clearly understand
the key differences the standout benefits and for
whom each plan is best suited for so you can make
a confident and practical decision. And before we
start so hi I'm Mariam and I represent policy hub
at policyhub we make insurance simple and easy
to understand so you can choose the right health
insurance plan without any confusion. And if you
are planning to buy a health insurance plan or
a term insurance policy or even thinking about
porting your existing policy then you can always
book your free consultation with our IR certified
advisor. And if you prefer watching these contents
in Hindi then do visit our Hindi channel as
well. And now in this video we will discuss the
basic features, unique benefits, waiting periods,
discounts, premium factors and most importantly
which plan is suitable for which type of person.
So make sure you stay till the end to get complete
clarity before making your decision. And in this
comparison let's understand the key difference
between neoper 3.0 and IC lumbard ale plan feature
by feature. So starting with the claim settlement
ratio. So neoper 3.0 has a CSR of 92%. While IC
lumbard elevate plan stands slightly higher at a
97% which indicates a strong claim support record
from both insurers. And when we talk about the
network hospitals, both companies offer access
to more than 10,000 plus network hospital across
India and it ensuring white castle treatment
availability. And now coming to eligibility
criteria. So Neapar 3.0 to allow entry from 18
years up to a age of maximum of 99 years and
children can be covered up to 30 years of age with
their family and under the family float option
you can cover two adults and up to five children
and the payment tenure can go up to 5 years and
on the other hand IC lumbard elevate plan offers
entry from 18 years up to 125 years which is quite
flexible and it provides payment tenure of maximum
for 5 years and in a family flo plan you can cover
two adults and up to three kids. Children are
considered dependent till the age of 30 years and
provided the policy is taken along with parents.
And if we look at the sumins inured option
then neopered 3.0 to offers an unlimited sum inure
feature which can be a major advantage for those
who looking for long-term financial security and
meanwhile ICC lumbar eleate plan provides multiple
suminsured options starting from five lakh and
goes up to unlimited sum insured option and in
terms of plan variants reassure 3.0 comes with
four variants classic variant, select variant,
elit variant and black variant and it's giving
customers flexibility to choose according to
their needs and their budget and in comparison
eleate plan is available in a single variant and
we will do the comparison with the black variant
of reassur 3.0 and between ICM eleate plan.
So both plan have their own strength. So the
right choice depends on your coverage, need,
family size and budget preferences. And now
let's move ahead and compare new operation 3.0
and ISO elevate plan on hospitalization and
additional benefit. So starting with inpatient
hospitalization. So both plans required a minimum
of 24 hours of hospitalization and expenses are
covered up to the full sum insured. IC number
alate plan also gives you the flexibility
to opt for a 2 hours hospitalation cover as an
optional benefit. And when we talk about room
rent eligibility neopure 3.0 to offers any
room category coverage in its black variant
and which gives a greater flexibility and on the
other hand IC lumbard aliate plan covers a single
private AC room and for prehosp hospitalization
expenses newer yesure 3.0 covers 60 days whereas
ICC Lombard provides a longer duration of 90 days
and post hospitalation expenses are covered for
180 days under both plans and if we look at the
bonus structure then the short 3.0 does not offer
a traditional no claim bonus because it already
provides an unlimited summon shot option and in
contrast IC lumbar aliate plan offers a 20% bonus
for every claim free year which can go up to 100%.
And both plan provide coverage for I use treatment
organ donor expenses do hospitalation modern
treatment up to the sum insured and it's ensuring
comprehensive health protection and another
basic feature of reassure 3.0 is reassure forever
benefit so neopreassure 3.0 road does not provide
a restoration benefit because it already offers
unlimited sum in short and it allow multiple claim
without reducing the coverage whereas ICC lumbar
alivate plan provides unlimited restoration which
works for both same and different illnesses
and now let's talk about the unique features
of both plans then neopatio 3.0 offers lock the
clock benefit where you pay premium as per your
entry age until a claim is made and this feature
is not available in the classic and select variant
and ICC Lombard does not offer this feature
and in terms of e- consultation services
neopa offers unlimited e- consultation within
its network centers and whereas ICC Lombard
also provides unlimited teleconultation via
audio video chat online portal or mobile app
but it is available as an optional cover for
second medical opinion neop Super reassured
3.0 offers unlimited second medical opinion in a
policy year within the network hospitals. While
this feature is not available under IC lumbar
deluate plan and when we talk about road ambulance
and air ambulance coverage then in neopatio 3.0
window black variant covered road ambulance up to
the sum insured. It means it covered the actual
cost and air ambulance is covered up to the five
lakh rupees per hospitalization and in IC lumbard
elevate plan road ambulance expenses covered up
to the sum in short and domestic air ambulance is
available as an optional rider. Both plan offer
strong benefits but the right choice depends on
your required flexibility, budget and preferred
additional feature. Now let's talk about the
unique feature that truly differentiate newer
3.0 and ISIS LMAD elevate plan. So starting with
reassure 3.0 one of its standout feature is the
option to get coverage for pre-existing disease
from day one by paying an additional loading
amount. So this can be a very strong advantage for
individual who already have medical condition and
do not want to wait through the standard waiting
period. And on the other hand, IC lumbard elevate
plan offers multiple innovative features. So the
unique benefit under IC lumbard elevate plan is
jump start. So with this benefit, individuals with
pre-existing disease conditions such as asthma,
diabetes, hypertension, high cholesterol, obesity
or even coronary artery disease in which PTCA
done prior to one year can become eligible
for coverage starting from just the 31st day
which significantly reduces the waiting period.
And the another important feature is the option
two-hour hospitalization under elevate plan where
medical expenses like room rent, doctor fees,
ICU charges and related costs are covered
for hospitalization lasting 2 hours or more.
And additionally, elevate plan offers the infinite
care benefit which provides a one-time infinite
claim amount for a selected claim adding an
extra layer of financial security. So both
plans bring powerful and distinctive feature
to the table. So the better option depends on
whether you prefer day one pre-existing disease
coverage with loading or innovative benefits
like jump start short during hospitalization or
infinite care. And if we compare the both plans
based on optional benefits. So this is where the
real difference show these add-ons and built-in
extra can completely change the long-term value
of the policy. So let's start with preventive
health checkup. So reassure 3.0 offers a day one
health checkup as per defined package which means
you don't have to wait to start using preventive
benefit and on the other hand IC lumbard elevate
provides a predefined health checkup package up
to 0.5% of the annual sum insure subject to a
maximum of 5,000 rupees and it is available on a
cashless basis another rider is cash back plus so
in reassure 3.0 to cash back plus accumulate
cash back for every claim free year. This
accumulated amount can be used to pay premium,
OPD, expenses, deductibles or co-ayments. You get
10% of the first renewal premium and 5% of every
subsequent renewal premium plus an extra 10% bonus
after completing a block of three claim free years
and there is even a referral benefits and whereas
elevate instead offers a power booster feature
which gives you 100% loyalty bonus every year
irrespective of claims and this continue for an
unlimited time. And when it comes to non-payable
items then reassured 3.0 offers safeguard plus
it covers item listed under standard non-payable
list list number one 2 3 and four and whereas ICC
lumber elevate offers claim protector which covers
item like gloves cotton syringe and mask up to
the sum inured and additionally it provides an
inflation protector as well that increases the
suminsured at renewal based on the previous year
inflation rate and in OPD coverage reassured
3.0 to offers well consult plus and it is
quite flexible. You can choose up to five times of
your total premium and maximum to one lakh as OPD
coverage including consultation, diagnostic forcy
and even gym membership and co-ayment applies
in reimbursement cases. And on the other hand,
elevate offers benefit benefit. It offers cashless
OPD services through its mobile app covering
forcy diagnostic and physotherapy and for personal
accidental rider reassure 3.0 to provides variant
based coverage and maximum up to 1 cr in black
variant in IC lumbard eleate personal accidental
is covered up to 50 lakh and it's applicable for
adult policy holder up to 65 years at the time of
first issuance and another rider is hospital daily
cash benefit then it's available under newer
reassure 3.0 and it provide 4,000 rupees per
day in black variant for up to 30 days and this
feature is not available in elevate plan reassure
3.0 to also allow an annual aggregate deductible
option ranging from 10,000 to maximum 5 lakh while
elevate does not offer this and neopa additionally
provide a tiered network option where treatment
outside a preferred hospital network may attract
co-ayment and when it comes to reducing waiting
periods neopa gives you the flexibility to modify
the pre-existing disease waiting period from 36
month to 12 or 24 months and you can also modify
the specific disease waiting period to 12 month or
36 month whereas ICCOM not elevate does not offer
waiting period modification but provides a chronic
disease management in this program for condition
like asthma diabetes hypertension obesity coronary
artery disease all are covered and in terms of
co-ayment flexibility neopa allow option from 0
to 50% while IComad elevate also offers co-ayment
option 10 to 50%. If we talk in terms of worldwide
coverage then reassure 3.0 covers the cost of
global treatment in black variant up to 50 lakh
rupees and in IC lomad alate it provides worldwide
coverage up to 3 cr with a 2-year waiting period
which can be reduced to one year by paying an
additional premium. Alivate also includes several
benefit that are not available in neoper 3.0 such
as compassionate visit like travel expenses for
a family member if hospitalization exceed 5 days.
Another is maternity benefit up to 10% of the sum
insured maximum up to one lakh with a two-year
waiting period. Newborn baby cover for 90 days
and dependent accommodation benefit durable
medical equipment cover up to 5 lakh annually
20 listed critical illness cover up to 50 lakh
room modifier option conveal sense benefit of
20,000 rupees and newborn vaccination cover up to
10,000 and if we talk in terms of waiting periods
then the waiting period structure is broadly
similar 30 days initial waiting period
36 month for pre-existing disease 24 month for
specified disease and ICC lumbard is specified
and 24 month for maternity and worldwide
cover and 90 days for biatic surgeries
and in terms of discount IC lumbard elevate offers
a 50% base discount up to 30% renewal discount
2.5% early renewal discount and additional loyalty
based discount in subsequent years. So overall
if you are looking for a flexibility deductible
option waiting period modification and a cashback
style reward structure new operation 3.0 may
feel more customizable but if you want a stronger
global coverage maternity benefits chronic disease
support and multiple lifestyle linked benefits
IC lumbard elevate appears more feature
loaded and if we talk in terms of premium
of both plans then premiums are divided into eight
jones in new parishes 3.0 to and in four jones in
ICC lumbard elevate plan. So the right choice
ultimately depend on your age, health profile,
family planning goal and how much global
or maternity coverage matters to you. So
one important thing you have to note is that if
you truly want to understand both plan in depth
including all the variants of new variation
3.0 to and every rider and optional features
of Isis Lombard Elevate then I strongly recommend
watching the separate detail videos available on
our channel and in those videos each variant of
reassure and every rider of elevate is explained
individually so you can clearly understand
which option fits your profile. So in my
opinion both reassure 3.0 window and elevate
are strong premium level health insurance plan
neither of them is weak and the difference
lies more in structure and philosophy than
in quality so reassure 3.0 is clearly built
around flexibility and long-term continuity
and the unlimited SEO feature, the ability to
modify waiting period and the option to reduce
pre-existing disease waiting period with loading,
variant based customization, deductible choice and
co-ayment flexibility make it highly adaptable.
It suits someone who want control over how the
policies is structured. And if you're planning
long-term coverage and want customization power,
this plan gives you the comfort and the lock the
clock benefit feature. and day one ped option
can be particularly attractive for specific
profiles. On the other hand, elevate plan
feels more feature- loaded and benefit driven.
It offers a structure add-on like jump start
for early PD coverage, two hours hospitalization
option, infight care benefit, maternity benefit,
global cover up to 3 cr, chronic disease
management and multiple lifestyle link benefit.
It also has a higher claim settlement ratio and
attractive renewal discount. If someone want a
plan that already includes multiple modern feature
and does not want to focus too much on variant
selection, Alivate provides a more bundled
comprehensive field. And if you want deeper
customation, variant flexibility, deductible
option, and long-term unlimited security,
reassure 3.0 may feel more structure and control
level. And if you want broader built-in benefit
like maternity, high global coverage, innovative
riders, and loyalty based advantage, elevate may
feel more featurerich and modern. Neither plan
is universally better. The better plan depends on
your age, existing medical condition, family size,
whether you need maternity or global coverage and
how much flexibility you personally value. My
honest view is that both are top tire products
in their category. The smarter choice is not about
which plan is best, but which one aligns better
with your specific health profile and financial
planning strategy. And I hope this video helped
you to understand the difference between yure
3.0 and aloe plant. And if it is then do like it,
share it and subscribe our channel. See
you in the next video. Until then, bye.